[(back to projects)](/projects.md)

# [m3u8a2](https://gist.github.com/dunnousername/dda3017d87d77894ae5acb23c0c28561)
m3u8a2 was a small script I wrote to do a specific task. I write a lot of specialized scripts like this, but this is the first time I've ever shared one on this blog site.

The "m3u8" in m3u8a2 corresponds to M3U8 (under [RFC 8216](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8216)), used in the HTTP Live Streaming protocol used by most internet video streaming services.
Simply put, M3U8 is just a playlist file. It tells a media player a list of segments (.ts files, media files that are usually no more than a few seconds long) as well as the timestamps they correspond to.
(More specifically, it specifies the duration of each segment, not the timestamp, but the timestamp can be derived from the individual durations).
Because each segment is small and the length is known ahead of time, players can "seek" through the entire playlist without downloading every preceding segment.
This is extremely useful for quickly seeking through a movie, for example, but it also means many players aren't optimized for the task of downloading the entire stream quickly.

Side note: most streaming sites don't directly expose an M3U8 file URI, but it can usually be obtained with a tool like [youtube-dl](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl).

Because players aren't optimized for downloading an entire playlist at once, they usually only use a single connection to a media server to download segments, which means they aren't particularly useful to download a large playlist quickly, e.g. for archiving.

The "a2" in m3u8a2 stands for [aria2](https://github.com/aria2/aria2), a lightweight multithreaded cross-platform file downloader.
aria2c is the CLI "client" for aria2.
It can use more than one connection at a time, and is easy to integrate, so it made sense to use here.

The M3U8 playlist is first scanned by m3u8a2, with all https URIs being replace with local filesystem ones, and the https URIs being put into a temporary file.
aria2c then downloads every file in the list of https URIs, and then the modified playlist is read by ffmpeg (essentially an open source media swiss-army-knife) and the segments are remuxed into an output file.

After using it for a bit, I've seen cases where m3u8a2 is about 10x as fast at downloading an m3u8 playlist than youtube-dl's integrated HLS downloader.

For those wanting to install it, the only requirements are:
- a Python 3 install
- aria2c in path
- ffmpeg in path

This was tested on Windows 10 with Anaconda. m3u8a2 uses `argparse` so it should give CLI help on how to use it.
